---
layout: post
title:  "Blog4"
date:   2020-10-02 20:48:31 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---


==>Docker File an dhow to create it<==

- Docker File
Docker file is a special file containing all the instruction to automate  a built. This file is a normal text file including commands in a special format. 
We can create the Docker file by using `touch` command and edit it using `vim`.


- Docker file requires special format which we have to follow.

`INSTRUCTION arguments`

Note: The instruction is not case sensitive but because of the convention we will use uppercase to separate them from arguments. 

Docker file runs instruction on order. Normally start with FROM. 


# FROM #
The `FROM` instruction initialized a new build and set the base image for subsequent instructions. 

`FROM ubunto:18:04`


# Comment #
To add comment we can use `#` and type the comment right after it. Docker will remove the comment lines before executing the docker file. 


# RUN # 
The `RUN` instruction will execute any commands in a new layer on top of the current image and commit the results.

`RUN apt-get update`


# CMD #
The `CMD`  will provide defaults to execute a container. 

Note: We should only use one `CMD` not more than one. 

`CMD <command> param1 param2`


# LABEL # 
The `LABEL` will add metadata to the image. 

# EXPOSE #
The `EXPOSE` will inform docker to the container is listening on a specific port numbers at the run time.

`EXPOSE 80/udp`


# ADD #
The `ADD` instruction will copy new files, directories from local or remote sources. 

`ADD <filename> /directory/`


# WORKDIR #

The `WORKDIR` instruction sets the workign directory for some other isntructions such as RUN, ADD, ...

`WORKDIR /mydir`
`RUN PWD`




