---
layout: post
title:  "Blog3"
date:   2020-09-25 18:21:31 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---


==>OpenSSH Client and Server Installation and Quick User Guide Line<==

OpenSSH is the premier connectivity tool for remote login with the SSH protocol. It encrypts all traffic to eliminate eavesdropping, connection hijacking, and other attacks. In addition, OpenSSH provides a large suite of secure tunneling capabilities, several authentication methods, and sophisticated configuration options. 



- How to check the if we have insatlled SSH:

`# which ssh`

If it shows the path then we have the ssh client installed.

`# /usr/bin/ssh`

#How to install the OpenSSH client and Server on the RedHat and CentOS:

To install the openssh server and client on the RedHat or CentOS we can use `YUM` package managers.

- Command line to install openssh cleint:

`# sudo apt-get install openssh-client`

- Command line to install openssh server:

`# sudo apt-get install openssh-server`


 #Check the services whcih are listening on the special ports:

`# sudo netstast -tulpn`

`# sudo systemctl status ssh`


#Start, Restart, and enable the SSH servcie: 

`# sudo systemctl start ssh`

`# sudo systemctl restart ssh`

`# sudo systemctl enable ssh`


#Additional switches for SSH command:

- debuging

`# ssh -v <user>@<host name or IP address>`

- Specify the connection by using the different port than the default:

`# ssh -p <Portnumber> ssh <user>@<host name or IP address>`


#Importan Directories:

- ~/.ssh/Known_Hosts, this file keeps the fingureprint of the client who tried to connect.

- /etc/ssh/sshd_confi whihc contains all the important configuration for OpenSSH Server. Such as:

1. To change port number - Port 22
2. To change root login option - PermitRootLogin no
3. To allow password authentication - PasswordAuthentication yes
4. To allow special users - AllowUSers
5. To allow special groups - AllowGroups

#To check the log files for SSH:

`# tail -f /var/log/auth.log`


#SSH authentication using Private and Public Keys:

- To generate keys, run the following command and answer the questions:

`# ssh-keygen`

Note: We can enter a passphrase which will be asked everytime for the connection. 

- Copy the Public key into target Server:

`# ssh-copy-id -i   ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub <serverIP>`


#Copy files and folders securly using SSH:

`# scp <filename> <server IP>:<path/location>`



