---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9"
date:   2020-11-06 20:59:31 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

# Packet Filter Part 1 - FreeBSD

- What is Packet filter:
Packet filter or PF is a complete, fullfeatured firewall which has optioanl support for ALTQ (Alternate Queuing)whcih provides Quality of Service (QoS).

- How to enable PF in FreeBSD?

1. Load the kernel module 
2. Enable it in th esystem configuration
3. Add rules to allow or deny specific traffics (optional)

- Add following line  into `rc.conf` file to enable PF.

`#sysrc pf_enable=yes`

- Add ruleset file and modify the `rc.conf` file. 

`#pf_rules="/path/to/pf.conf"`

- Enable loging for PF by adding the following line in `rc.conf` file:

`#sysrc pflog_enable=yes`

- To enable the LAN gateway:

`#gateway_enable="YES"`

- To start the PF we will need to run the following commands:

`#service pf start`

`#service pflog start`

# Some of the usfule PFCTRL commands:


`#pfctl -e`  To enable PF.

`#pfctl -d`  To disable PF.

`#pfctl -F all -f /etc/pf.conf` To flush all NAT, filter, state, and table rules and reload /etc/pf.conf.

`#pfctl -s [ rules | nat | states ]` Report on the filter rules, NAT rules, or state table.

`#pfctl -vnf /etc/pf.conf`  To check /etc/pf.conf for errors, but do not load ruleset.

# how to create custom Ruleset?

The rulesets are use to allow, deny and modify the connections. To create a custome rule set we can use the existign samples located in the following directory:

`/usr/share/examples/pf/`

- Sample ruleset located in the `/etc/pf.conf`:

`block in all`

`pass out all keep state`

- To load the ruleset:

`#pfctl -e ; pfctl -f /etc/pf.conf`

Example: Using macros to qllow list of services:

`tcp_services = "{ ssh, smtp, domain, www, pop3, auth, pop3s }"`

`udp_services = "{ domain }"`

`block all`

`pass out proto tcp to any port $tcp_services keep state`

`pass proto udp to any port $udp_services keep state`

NOTE: After any ruleset modification, the rulesset needs to be loaded again by using the follwing command:

`#pfctl -f /etc/pf.conf`

To test the ruleset before loadign, we can use the follwing command:

`#pfctl -nf /etc/pf.conf`

