---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8"
date:   2020-10-30 20:59:31 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---


# Ansible Playbooks - Part3

- YAML Tags:
Here are the differnet YAML tags:
 1. name
 2. hosts
 3. vars
 4. tasks

This is a basic descripotion for different tasks from tutorialpoints.com. 

 - name:
 This tag specifies the name of the Ansible playbook. As in what this playbook will be doing. Any logical name can be given to the playbook.

 - hosts:
 This tag specifies the lists of hosts or host group against which we want to run the task. The hosts field/tag is mandatory. It tells Ansible on which hosts to run the listed tasks. The tasks can be run on the same machine or on a remote machine. One can run the tasks on multiple machines and hence hosts tag can have a group of hosts’ entry as well.

 - vars:
 Vars tag lets you define the variables which you can use in your playbook. Usage is similar to variables in any programming language.

 - tasks:
 All playbooks should contain tasks or a list of tasks to be executed. Tasks are a list of actions one needs to perform. A tasks field contains the name of the task. This works as the help text for the user. It is not mandatory but proves useful in debugging the playbook. Each task internally links to a piece of code called a module. A module that should be executed, and arguments that are required for the module you want to execute.

-handlers
Finally, we have the handlers section, where the services are declared. We define the restart apache handler that is notified from the fourth task, where the Apache template is applied.

# Here is an example of the playbooks with all the mentioned YAML tags:

--- 
   name: install and configure DB
   hosts: testServer
   become: yes

   vars: 
      oracle_db_port_value : 1521
   
   tasks:
   -name: Install the Oracle DB
      yum: <code to install the DB>
    
   -name: Ensure the installed service is enabled and running
   service:
      name: <your service name>

  handlers:
    - name: restart apache
      service: name=apache2 state=restarted